# How to become a React Native Developer in 2019?

My team started to use React Native since 2018. As an Android Developer, I also started to learn React Native from scratch. I used to learn Node.js before, but I've never used JavaScript to write UI code. In the process of learning, I do have encountered a lot of pitfalls and have some experience about how to learning React Native. This post is a good guide for anyone who has a developer background, and also want to learn React Native. Now let's start with what should we learn at first.

## I. JavaScript
If you are a developer in Java/C#/Swift/Kotlin/Ruby/Python, you may be okay with JavaScript. At least, you can read most of the JS code. However, unlike any programming language I mentioned above, JS have a couple of things that may confuse you as you continue to use it:

* JavaScript has no class. (Even the 'class' definition in ES6 is still a function under the hood. Oh, you ask what is ES6? We will cover it later)

* JavaScript has no thread.  But it still have async operations.

* "this" in JavaScript is quite different from Java or other OO language. You will get a lot of errors if you don't understand the concept of "this" in JavaScript.

For helping you really understand JavaScript, I recommend these books or posts for you: 

[JavaScript: The Definitive Guide](https://www.amazon.ca/JavaScript-Definitive-Guide-Activate-Pages/dp/0596805527)

[Understanding 'this' keyword in JavaScript](https://medium.com/quick-code/understanding-the-this-keyword-in-javascript-cb76d4c7c5e8)

## II. ES6
Can you imagine a Java world without for-each, streaming, lambda, enum, and other useful features? Yes, Java 1 to Java 4 are that kind of worlds. For JavaScript, the JS before ES6 is like a raw country. JS after ES6 are the one that's really sweet.

Yes, you may think ES6 is like a new version, a higher version of JS. With ES6, you can use:

* class (like most of other programming languages)

* Promise (like RxJava in Java)

* async, await (like coroutine in Kotlin)

* generator (like Generator in Python)

* decorator (like Decorator in Python)

* ... ... 


I do have a great ES6 book to recommend, [ECMAScript 6 入门](http://es6.ruanyifeng.com/) however, it's in Chinese. Lucky for us, there are tons of posts to introduce ES6. You are feel to google them.

## III. React 
Before you dive into the world of React Native, I strongly recommend you to at least know what is React. This would absolutely help you to understand plenty of staff about React Native, as React Native is just like a branch of React. 

I read a wonderful book when I started to learn React Native, [React and React Native](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/react-and-react-native-second-edition), and this book is pretty good for a new learner. It explained JavaScript, React and React Native. This book should be your first thing to read. It covers some pitfalls in JavaScript, and also tells you how to render React / React Native screens, and most important of all, it also tells you how to improve your React / React Native code.


## IV. React Native
After reading the previous book I recommend, you now are able to write some React Native screens. 

But most of time, the code you write may be mixed UI and business logic, which is hard to test, and is against the principle of React / React Native. React / React Native should have simplest component, and logic code would be best not in the component.  Now it's the architecture comes to rescue you. Redux is one of the most common architecture in React world.

## V. Redux
[Redux](https://redux.js.org/introduction/getting-started) tries to make your state flow clearer in your code. And by returning new state every time, it makes your flow simple and consistent, which is easy for debug and test.


## VI. Testing
Redux is about architecture, while [Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/getting-started) is about testing. If you wrote JUnit before, then you would get to understand Jest pretty quickly. 

Jest is actually powerful than JUnit. It's more like this: 

`Jest = JUnit + Mockito + Jacoco`

Jest could easily mock any object. And just a `jest --coverage` is enough for you to check the coverage. (Yes, Jacoco is apparently more complex)

## VII. A good practice
[React Native Basics: Build a Currency Converter](https://learn.handlebarlabs.com/p/react-native-basics-build-a-currency-converter) is online course to tell you how to write UI code, how to organized your code with Redux, how to make animation, how to navigate, and also how to visit Remote APIs. Mostly important, it's free to enroll. 

After you finish it with the teacher, you would get a big picture about a React Native project in real life.

## VIII. IDE
I know Facebook is recommending Atom. But I saw more people are using [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

For me, I was previously an Android developer, which means I am familiar with Intelljscratch IDEA and Android Studio. So I bought [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/) from the same IDE manufacturer, JetBrains.

The price is US $59.00 for the first year, US $47.00 for the second year, and US $35.00 for the third year onwards. I bought it for CAD $79.83 for a year. It may seem a little expensive, but I think this tool is help me improve efficiency. So I bought it as a gift for my own birthday. ^_^


## IX. Conclusion

This post covers most of fields you need to learn to become a React Native developer. After you finish all of these, please start to write some code to help you understand all the concepts you have learned. And by doing your own demo, you could find out a lot of things you never expected when you were learning.



