[Design]
OCP, SIP, LSP, DIP

-- conform to OCP ;  if OCP is applied well, 
-- violate OCP

If OCP is applied well, further cahnges of that kind are achieved by adding new code, not by changing old code that already work. 
What are the traps that will cause us to create hierarchies that do not conform to OCP?
This change immediately satisfies both DIP and OCP.

requirements change
extend the module with new behaviors that satisfy those changes

be closed against (new change)
close ...(function) against ...(change)
   : close the drawAllShapes function against ordering issue

the likely kinds of change
how do we know which change are likey?

LSP: subtypes must be substitutable for their base types

remain consistent with sth.

影响(其它系统，其它类)
app layer is unaffected by any changes to the lib layer.
When once client forces a change on the fat class, all the other clients are affected. 
break the fat interface into many client-specific interface

分解大类
: The fat interface can be broken up into groups of methods. 
: avoid such coupling when possible
: Fat interface cause harmful coupling between its clients. 

No duplication.

Favor object composition over class inheritance

[Development]
However, there is a way to sidestep the problem.

Each group serves a different set of clients. 

回头看了自己的不同代码, 并重构它们, 从而得到一个"code smell"的列表
I compiled this list by walking through several different programs and refactoring them. 

It is inappropriate for a comment to hold information better held in git, or jira. 

Comments should be reserved for technical notes about the code and design. 

A comment that has gotten old, irrelevant, and incorrect is obsolete. 

It makes me crazy to see stretches of code that are commented out. Who know how old it is? Yet no one will delete it because everyone assumes someone else needs it or has plans for it. 

Comment should say things that the code cannot say for itself.

[Team]
build collaborative and self-organizing team


[Project]
The demands changes from time to time


[prep]
讲解完后，说"Thus, ..."
: Thus, we might conclude that ....

进一步： Moreover, you ....

换句话说
Said another way, ....

[小词]
与...相关
： break the fat interface into many client-specific interface
： 

有鉴于, ...  Given
: Given his age, he's a remarkablely fast runner
: Give (the fact) that he's had six month to do this, he hasn't made much progress.


引用某人的话
To use Jim's phrase, people are not "plug-replaceable programming units"

竞争
have a huge competitive advantage over sb. 