---
layout: post
category : Android
tagline: "and-struture"
tags : [and-structure]
---
## A. MVC structure

### A1. Old MVC Sample
MVC is an old framework for UI system, the typical use is : JSP + Servlet + Java Server.

- JSP is the View part. It shows the view
- Servlet is the Controller. It transfers the data to the correct model.
- Logic classes in the server is the Model. It saves data, calculates and returns the result.

 ####. View (JSP)
the action ("loginController") will send Http(s) result to the Server. The servlet class in the Server will receive name and password.

{% highlight html %}
<form action="loginController" method="post">
	UserName : <input type="text" name="name">
	PassWord : <input type="password" name="password">
	<input type="submit"/>
</form>
{% endhighlight %}

 ####. Controller (Servlet)
Servlet is the Controller. It receives the data, filters the data, transfer the data to the correct logic class(Model).

{% highlight java %}
public class LoginController extends HttpServlet {
	private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;
 
	public LoginController() {
		super();
	}
 
	protected void doPost(HttpServletRequest request,
			HttpServletResponse response) throws ServletException, IOException {
 
		String username = request.getParameter("username");
		String password = request.getParameter("password");
		RequestDispatcher rd = null;
 
		Authenticator authenticator = new Authenticator();
		String result = authenticator.authenticate(username, password);
		if (result.equals("success")) {
			rd = request.getRequestDispatcher("/success.jsp");
			User user = new User(username, password);
			request.setAttribute("user", user);
		} else {
			rd = request.getRequestDispatcher("/error.jsp");
		}
		rd.forward(request, response);
	}
 
}
{% endhighlight %}

 ####. Model 
Separation between Model and Servlet, will cause the Model codes be more cleaner. 

{% highlight java %}
package mvcdemo.model;
 
public class Authenticator {
 
	public String authenticate(String username, String password) {
		if (("prasad".equalsIgnoreCase(username))
				&& ("password".equals(password))) {
			return "success";
		} else {
			return "failure";
		}
	}
}
{% endhighlight %}

### A2. Requirement changes ....

1. PD now feel the current html page too old and out-of-date, so PD wants an another page with flat design.
All we need to do is to changes the JSP pages.  (and Servlet and Model in server do not need to change!)

2. The database DAO class is old, the server need to change to a newer, existing Model.  We only have to change the Servlet.

3. Database has changed, we need to operate another table. All we need to do is to modify the Model class. No need to modify JSP and Servlet.

Now we see the beauty of MVC, that is also the beauty of decoupled system. When the requirment is changed, we only have to modify one part of the whold system.  Therefore, the test is much more easier. QA only have to test the specific part. 



## B. The MVC delimma in Android 

At first sight, Android seems to use MVC.  Activity, Adapter, View and layout xml is the View ; Activity,  View, Window seems to be the Controller ; Logic class is the Model, and Activity, in some case, is also the Model.

Okay, now we see the weak point of this existing "MVC" framwork in Android : 

- the responsibility of all parts is not very clearly
- Activity is the know-it-all class, or "God Class" （--Uncle Bob)





Now Android do not adapt the clear MVC framework. So, we Android developer is very hard to build a decoupled, clean framework. 






##reference 
http://www.thejavageek.com/2013/08/11/mvc-architecture-with-servlets-and-jsp/






