---
layout: post
category : Android
tagline: "and-struture"
tags : [and-structure]
---



## The Difficulties in the Android app
- the annoying boilerplate code, such as findViewById(), setOnClickListener() ...
- God class : Activity
- Android do not hava a clean MVC framework
- Multi thread handling is complex
- (Java) file stream, try-catch, no block, no first-class function, no AOP ...


## Problem 1 : boilerplate

### A sample from old time
A typical Activity class is like this:
{% highlight java %}
public class HomeActivity extends RootActivity implements OnClickListener{
	private ImageView ivHead;
	private ImageView ivSetting;
	private TextView tvUserName;
	private ImageButton ibGo;
	private Button btnCancel;
	private Button btnCamera;
	private Button btnAlbum;
	private Button btnBack;

    @Override
    protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
        this.requestWindowFeature(Window.FEATURE_NO_TITLE);
        setContentView(R.layout.activity_home);

        ibGo = (ImageButton)findViewById(R.id.btn_card);
        ibGo.setOnClickListener(this);
        TextView tvCardCount=(TextView)findViewById(R.id.tv_card_count);
        // ...
    }


    @Override
    public void onClick(View v) {
        // TODO Auto-generated method stub
        if (v == ibGo&&LoginUtil.isLogin()) {
            // ...
        } else if (v == btnCancel&&LoginUtil.isLogin()) {
            // ...
        } else if (v == btnCamera&&LoginUtil.isLogin()) {
            // ...
        } else if (v == btnAlbum) {
            // ...
        }
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

We have to find every view in the laout and cast it to the correct type.

And we have to setOnClickListener() to some views.
Even if we just need a onClick(), but we still need to transfer a interface/class to the setOnClickListener(listener) function.

When you have been writing these boring codes for more than two, or five years, you will feel annoying and be tied to a rotten system.

How can we fix this?

### Solution 01 : Annotation for view injection

There are some brilliant library to support view injection to help us.
And Butterknife is a famous one. It manages to use annotation to help use to eliminate these boilerplate.

Here is one example:

{% highlight java %}

class ExampleActivity extends Activity {
  @Bind(R.id.user) EditText username;
  @Bind(R.id.pass) EditText password;

  @BindString(R.string.login_error)
  String loginErrorMessage;

  @OnClick(R.id.submit) void submit() {
    // TODO call server...
  }

  @Override public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    setContentView(R.layout.simple_activity);
    ButterKnife.bind(this);
    // TODO Use fields...
  }
}

{% endhighlight %}

We can see it helps us a lot :

- Eliminate findViewById calls by using @Bind on fields.
- Group multiple views in a list or array. Operate on all of them at once with actions, setters, or properties.
- Eliminate anonymous inner-classes for listeners by annotating methods with @OnClick and others.
- Eliminate resource lookups by using resource annotations on fields.

These library are good, but I still have to type R.id.*** and @Bind, @BindString....<br/>
I am still not satisfied.

### Solution 02 : Songzhw's groovy script
<a href="https://github.com/songzhw/android-toolkit">https://github.com/songzhw/android-toolkit</a> is my own tool kit to help reduce the boilerplate. 

Right now, you only have to do is to give the script some arguments, and my script will automatically generate Activity (from R.layout.****.xml) , Model, Adapter, Request, Response (from a json response string). 

- Json2Request : read a json , and parse it to java classes : **Request, **Response
- AutoFindViewById : read a layout xml, and parset it to Activity

The one benefit is of course you no need to write same and boring codes again and again.

And the other benefit is you can custom the script as you wish. It is very easy to change the script, and get what you own required result. 

p.s : I have two version of this script tool: python and groovy. But the first one is lost, and now I only the code of grovvy version.

Welcome to star it!





{% highlight java %}

{% endhighlight %}
