## I. Introduction
Fragment has been made since 2011 for the support of tablet on Android 3.0+. The original intention is that it can help us to write once, but two different UI for phones and tablets. 

[Fragment's usage on different devices](https://i.stack.imgur.com/FtzKs.png)

But this seems only works for the list. More complex UI is hard to fulfill this goal. However, smart developers found out that Fragment actually could do a single part of UI View, so we could compose different Fragment to one screen, and, oh yearh, we could reuse our View code. Wasn't it wonderful?!

I was one of these excited developers. But after several years of using Fragment, I have to say, Fragment is one of the worst product in the Android world. Wait a minute, I am not here to declare a war, please allow me to explain more details.

## II. Transaction
 
### 2.1 commit() and state loss

One of the most common crash I can see is `java.lang.IllegalStateException: Can not perform this action after onSaveInstanceState`. 

This exception is Android trying to tell you that if you update the Fragment after the app is being backgrounded or killed, then your update might be recorded in teh onSaveInstanceState(). So next time you bring back the app, this kind of update would be lost. 

I get it, and it's good. But sometimes we do not know when is the time to call `fragment.commit()`, especially your `fragment.commit()` happens in one async callback. It's totally possible that I just send a HTTPS reqeust to fetch something, and then the user backgrounds our app. When the response arrives, we want to do something and call `newFragment.commit()`.
One possible solution is to use `fragment.commitAllowingStateLoss()`.  `commitAllowingStateLoss()` is not a good idea in generally, you can only use it when you are really sure this kind of update is okay to be lost. Remeber to pay attention to this `commitAllowingStateLoss()` method when you are reviewing your colleage's PR.

### 2.2 no commitAllowingStateLoss()?
`AlertDialog` is now not encouraged to use. Instead, Google suggests you to use `DialogFragment`. That's fine. But if you want to commit a dialog in a async callback, and you have put your app in the background, you will get the previous error agagin.

Just unfortunately for us, `DialogFragment` does not have the `commitAllowingStateLoss()` method. Yeah, I am so frustrated by this reality when I had this error, and I still have no good solution for this. In my opinion, if the app is killed accidently, and is brought back to foreground, it really is not a big deal that if the dialog is not showing. But a mandatory crash seems a overkill.

### 2.3 dialogFragment.dismiss()
Now I have a business scenario: I have to dismiss a popped up dialog first, then go fetch something from the backend. If I can get the successful response, then I can go to the next Activity. Here is the code

```java
// ResetPasswordDialog
this.dismiss();
anotherDialogFragment.sow(fragmentManager, tag)
httpEngine.fetch(){ resp ->
      mActivity.startActivity(someIntent)
}
```

You may have guessed what could happen. My app crashes: `java.lang.NullPointException : mActivity is null`.
Yes, after `this.dismiss`, the `mActivity` is now detached, and the value is null.

I don't want to say this is all Fragment's fault. But if this code is happening in an Activity:

```java
alertDialog.dismiss()
...
this.startActivity(someIntent)
```

Then it's definitely okay to run. And we now find out one important thing: Google treating Fragment and Activity are two things, and the reality that they both play as a role of `ViewController` (iOS term, which is super accurate here), makes our developerment life miserable. 

Actually, this is the root reason that why Framgent is bad. It's because Google don't know Fragment's position. Sometimes, it works like an Activity (so some other devs may say: we could have one activity and many fragments in one single app); and other times, people treats Fragments as a view, a UI component. This kind of confusion actually make the code hard to be consistent. 

## III. Why can't Fragment be a replacement of Activity?

I know Jake Wharton, a very respectful developer, had a talk, to introduce a new design: one activity + many fragment. 
I have to say, Jake Wharton is very smart, and he apparently noticed one of the greatest weakness of fragment. 

Many things that Fragments can do could also be done by Activity. And I have to say, Activity is even more powerful, then why should I use Fragment?

### 3.1 intent flag
Intent Flag is a very powerful weapon to deal with the stack. My iOS colleage is envy me that I can manipulate the activity stack so flexibly. But only Activities has intent flag. Fragment does not. 

This means you can not do `clear_top`, `single_top` and otehr intent flag to Fragment. This is a great loss.

### 3.2 adb command
As a new developer to a new company, or a developer who is not familiar with his/her code, `adb shell dumpsys activity` could help him/her a lot. It can 
* help you to find out which Activity class the front page is
* help you to find out if your Activity has been leaked
* help you to verify if you use the intent flags correctly
* ...

Fragment has stack too, but we don't have a command to show the fragment stack. So, it's hard for us to debug.

### 3.3 other things that Fragments don't have
* Like Activity, Fragment has `startActivityForResult`, but it has no `setResult()` method. It's `onActivityResult()` have some issues. There are many article in the Internet.
* the `android:onClick="func"` can only work when the `func` locates in the Activity. If this `func` is a fragment's method, then clicking a button will not trigger this `func` method
* Fragment has no `onBackPressed`, which is odd for "one activity + many fragment" architecture
* You still have to use `findViewById(id)` inside Fragment if you are using kotlin, whereas you don't have to do so in the Activity.
* ...

### 3.4 Fragment still have the drawback of Actiivty
When you know Fragment is not as powerful as Activity, it's sad to hear. But now I'm sorry to tell you that Fragment still have the disadvantages of Actvity. 

What is Activity's most disadvantage?
The answer may vary, but mine is "Activity, by its nature, is a God Class".
Activity is the place to listen to the lifecycle change, the place to listen to the touch event, and the place to refresh UI. In the real world, many developer also write the business logic in the Activity. 
Fragment seems like a cue for this. You can compose many different Fragment to the Activity. So you decouple the Activity and could reuse the Fragments. Unfortunately, this is no go. Because, Fragment is also a God Class, which is in charge of lifecycle, ui refresh, ui click, and even business logic. So, by all means, Fragment is still potentially a "God Class".

p.s The latest technique is the actual cue: lifecycle library, jetpack compose(declarative UI, see Google I/O 2019), MVP, MVVM. But they are not here to make the Fragment better. They are just making architecture better.



### 3.5 Conclusion
This chapter actually just want to show you that Fragment can't replace Activity. Fragment is not as powerful as Activity, whereas it still have the downsides that Activity has. So it's not a good choice in most of cases.

## 4. Architecture / Global Tools

### 4.1 Fragment and OCP
Since Fragment has no `onBackPressed()` method, so we have to define the back action in the Activity, if we want to add some our own business logic to this back action (i.e. add analytics info, ...). This results in one ugly architecture: every time you add a new fragment, you need to modify its host Activity's onBackPressed(). 

There is one MAJOR principle violated here! The OCP principle. I don't want to modify the Activity every time I add a fragment. AKA, I want my host Activity to be closed to the change of it's fragments.

### 4.2 One Activity, Multiple Fragments?
This is explained in the previous section. Fragment is not as powerful as Activity, yet it still has the drawback of Activity. So Fragment is not a good replacement for Activity.

### 4.3 Fragment as a View?
Some other dev also want to make Fragment as a kind of "View", so it can be composed, to be insert/delete dynamically. I have to say, this is a good idea - I mean the principle. But Fragment is obivously not the ideal role for this job. 
* We already have `View` class for this job. So basically we don't need `Fragment` 
* Nested Fragment still have issues, like the `onActivityResult()`, so it's not recommended to use. This means you can not compose Fragment A inside Fragment B (just like the High Order Component in the React, if you are familiar with React)


### 4.4 Global Tools
This is an advanced topic. If you or your team tries to do something globally, then Fragment would be a big problem for you.

Let's say, if you want to add some log to the invibility of  every screen, you can use AspectJ, or write some Gradle plugin. I can listen to `Activity.onPause()`, and inject my logic to the call of this method.

Unfortunately, if you are using Fragment as well, then you have to write duplicate code to inject the log to the `Fragment.onPause()` as well. That means the workload just doubled. 

If your requirement is small, that's okay. But if your requirement is complex, then you will find out you are in a miserable stuck. Take the `jetpack lifecycle` library for example. The first time it is released on Google I/O, its alpha version only supports Activity, and don't support `Fragment`. That is a perfect example of my view. Google's jetpack developers have to make sure they code has to be able to be used in the Activity, and the Fragment! Yeah, workload doubles!

This actually is not a small issue. I saw many big companies are trying to build some global tools to help them with their own logic. But Fragment just make things worse.

## 5. Conclusion
The root cause of why Fragment is so twisted and struggle, is that Android OS team still are confused by the usage of Fragment.
At first, they want to use it as a tablet tool.
Then, they want to use it as a separate, composeable view.
Then, they walso want to use Fragment as a single screen.

This kind of confusion makes Fragments has many weird stuff inside it, also makes Fragments a even more "God Class". 

p.s. Obviously, I'm not the only one saw it. Square does not like Fragment. Even Google realized the issues of Fragment. Google tries to release some kind of `Fragment 2.0`, to test it easily,  to handle all the issues I've been talking. But still, I think Fragment is not necessary, even evil. `Activity` and `View` is good enough for us. Take Flutter for example, Flutter don't have Activity and Fragment. All of Flutter's view are widget. That's simple, that's easy to modify and compose. So my conclusion is : "Don't use Fragment. Activity, and MVP/MVVP, is the real answer for most of our many architecture issue". -- maybe jetpack compose could help us as well, but it's still not released yet.
