Room has been out for serveral years, I haven't used it until this year. And I do learn a lot this time, and would like to take a note of it.

Before I dive in, I would say, the version of Room I'm using is :

```
def room_version = "2.2.2"

    // ROOM
    implementation "androidx.room:room-runtime:$room_version"
    kapt "androidx.room:room-compiler:$room_version"
    implementation "androidx.room:room-ktx:$room_version" // ktx + Coroutine
```

By the way, you can check [here](https://developer.android.com/jetpack/androidx/releases/room) to see the release log of Room.

## Relation
The first thing I would state is the relation in ROOM. As we all know, if you have multiple tables and there might be 1:1, 1:Many, Many:Many relation among these tables.

I would like to explain how to build a many to many relation using Room, as this is the hardest relation for us.  Say I have a recipe database, which has two tables: "ingredient" and "recipe". The relation between ingredient and recipe, of course, are many to many. Here is how we retrieve data from Database

1). We define the entities first

```kotlin

@Entity
data class Ingredient(
    val name: String,
    val isVegi: Int,
    @PrimaryKey(autoGenerate = true) var ingredientId: Int = 0
) 

@Entity
data class Cuisine(
    val name: String,
    @PrimaryKey(autoGenerate = true) var cuisineId: Int = 0
)

```

Note that we have to have one, and only one, field annoated with @PrimaryKey in every Entity class.
p.s. You could add @ForeignKey as well. 

2). As we know, many to many relation also requires an extra table to save the relations. That's why we still need one more table.

```kotlin
@Entity
data class IngredientCuisine(
    @ForeignKey(
        entity = Ingredient::class,
        parentColumns = ["ingredientId"],
        childColumns = ["ingredientId"]
    )
    val ingredientId: Int,

    @ForeignKey(
        entity = Cuisine::class,
        parentColumns = ["cuisineId"],
        childColumns = ["cuisineId"]
    )
    val cuisineId: Int,

    @PrimaryKey(autoGenerate = true)
    var icID: Int = 0
)
```

3). Now if we want to know what ingredients are in one specific cuisine, then we need to have a new POJO class to get the data from database. But note that this new POJO class is not an Entity class. Entity is normally a table, but this new POJO class is only the result of query.

```kotlin
data class CuisineWithIngredients(
    @Embedded val cuisine: Cuisine,
    @Relation(
        parentColumn = "cuisineId",
        entity = Ingredient::class,
        entityColumn = "ingredientId",
        associateBy = Junction(IngredientCuisine::class)
    )
    val ingredients: List<Ingredient>
)
```
Note that we have @Embadded cuisines, and also a @Relation annotation to state the relation between two tables. The `IngredientCuisine` class of course is the bridge between Ingredient and Cuisine.

Note that this @Relation(associateBy) is since Room 2.2! 

4). Now we finally could go to retrieve the Cuisine data from database.

```kotlin
@Dao
interface RecipeDao {
    @Query("select * from Cuisine")
    suspend fun cuisinesWithIngredients(): List<CuisineWithIngredients>
    ...
}

@Database(
    entities = [Ingredient::class, Cuisine::class, IngredientCuisine::class],
    version = 1
)
abstract class RecipeDatabase : RoomDatabase() {
    abstract fun dao(): RecipeDao
}
```

Note that the `@Query("select * from Cuisine")` is only query from `Cuisine` table, but what you got is actually a list of `CuisineWithIngredients`.

## pre-packaged database

### 1. load a pre-packaged database
We didnt' have a pre-packaged database before ROOM 2.2. What we did is to insert a bunch of tables on the fresh install, but also need to be careful that we don't create tables every time we open the app.

Lucky for us, ROOM 2.2 support pre-packaged database now. We can now put the database files to `assert` or `file system`. And since we need to place our pre-defined database to our apk, we normally would like to put it to `assert` foldwer.

And then we can load the pre-packaged database like this:

```kotlin
database = Room.databaseBuilder(
            context.applicationContext,
            RecipeDatabase::class.java,
            "recipes.db"
        )
        .createFromAsset("database/recipe.app")
        .build()
```

Yeah, pre-packaged db sound nice, but it still have some gotchas there:

### 2. gotcha: schema gets wrong? 
I created some tables, and inserted some data to tables by using SQL code, just like : 

```sql
> sqlite3 recipe.db
> CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS Ingredient (id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT, name text);
> INSERT INTO Ingredient(name) VALUES ("egg");
```

But when I copied and pasted the generated database to my android project and compile it, I got an error saying that the schema in the  pre-pacakged database are not exactly as same as the schema defined in my  `@Entity` class.

I did many changes. Sometimes, it's a foreign key; some other time, it's `not null` issues. Anyway, I've wasted 30 minutes to this kind of debugging. It's boring and exhausting. 

Suddendly, the perfect solution just dawned on me. I realized that i don't have to create a database by myself, which is error-prone. I should just create another Android project, and use Room's `@Entity` class to generate a database for me. This way, I just have to copy these Entity classes and DAO classes fro this new project to my work project. And since the database is generated by ROOM, so it can be understandable by ROOM. Perfect solved!



### 2. gotcha: upgrate databases?




## search text


## unit test


## ref
[What's new in ROOM(Android Dev Summit '19)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_aJsh6P00c0) is a great video that deserve your 16 minutes to watch. It presents many useful new feature, such as pre-packaged db and realtion. I strongly suggest you to take a look.