## 1. What is TLS and why should you use it everywhere
The network is not to be trusted.  For mobile devices it's actually especially true.  Because think of your smartphone. How many different network does it connect in a given day. Setting up a free Wi-Fi network takes basically zero effort. And the wifi you connected may be hostile to you.

TLS(Transport Layer Security), which is previsouly known as SSL(Secure Sockets Layer), is safe by default. Https is actually Http over TLS. 

**Use TLS for all your traffic**. This is actullay the shortest part of this whole talk.

##2. Using TLS on the client and checking your work
### 2.1 Using Http? Switch to Https
If your application uses standard HTTP libraries it is as simple as replacing http:// with Https://

If you're implementing your own custom protocol on top of Sockets, you can also use TLS by wrapping it with an  SSLSocket instead. However, there is one very big pitfall that you need to keep in mind. Unlike what Https client do, SSLSocket does not check that the host that you're connecting to is the host you expected to connect to. If you don't do it by yourself, your connections are completely insecure. The way to fix it is the **HostnameVerify**. 

### 2.2 Checking your network
To check the network, you can use these two Marshmallow new features to help you.
(1). [Strict mode cleartext detection](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/StrictMode.VmPolicy.Builder.html#detectCleartextNetwork()) to help you while testing
```java
StrictMode.VmPolicy policy = 
    new StrictMode.VmPolicy.Builder()
        .detectCleartextNetwork()
        .penaltyDeath()
        .build();
StrictMode.setVmPolicy(policy);
```

(2). [usesCleartextTraffic application manifest attribute](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element.html) to block accidental regressions on user devices
```xml
<application android:useCleartextTraffic="false" />
```


## 3. TLS mistakes and misconfigurations
How do you know that you're using TLS correctly?

The good news is it's a secure by default on basically all modern platforms. So if you don't try to do anything custom, you are good to go. Life is great, you don't need to do anything.

If you want to override these defaults, you should be careful. 

The wrong way to do this:
```java
HttpsURLConnection.setDefaultHostnameVerifier( new HostnameVerifier(){
    public boolean verify(String hostname, SSLSession session){
        return true;
    }
});
```

### 3.1 HostnameVerify
It's important to say you probably don't need to do this. SNI(server name indication) has been supported on Android since 2.3. So if you don't support back that far, don't worry about it.

### 3.2 Certificate
How to you make sure the certificate that you got from server is trusted?
anyone out there can go buy a valid certificate for their own doamin. It's $20. Nowaday you can probably also just get them for free.

Certificate includes a name, public key, issue and more. And the issue itself is also a certificate. Yes, this is a certificate chain. If some certificate is one of our device CAs, you can trust this certificate. 

[The right way to do it is here](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-ssl.html#UnknownCa).

The wrong way to do this:
```java
SSLContext sslContext = SSLContext.getInstance("TLS");
sslContext.init(null, new TrustManager[]{
    new X509TrustManager() {
        public void checkClientTrusted(X509Certificate[] chain, String authTyp) {}
        public void checkServerTrusted(X509Certificate[] chain, String authTyp) {}
        public X509Certificate[] getAcceptedIssuers() { 
            return new X509Certificate[]{};
        }
    }
}, null );
```
However, the X509TrustManager.checkServerTrusted() throws no CertificationException in the previous code. That means   **ANY** server is trusted.


## 4. nogotofail

[Nogotofail](https://github.com/google/nogotofail) is a network testing tool for finding misconfigurations, bugs, and leaks in network traffic.















