
## 1. Kotlin cares about the method count
As an early user of Kotlin, I have been using Kotlin since 2015. That's because I was aware of the pain points of Java since 2014, so I was trying to find another options for developing Android.  

Besides Kotlin, I also tried Groovy too. Groovy, just like Ruby, is one of my favorite language, which makes the programmer's life easier. I like that. However, Groovy is not a language for Android development. Groovy 2.4 was released since 2015, and the Groovy SDK contains almost 20K methods. As we know, Android has a 65K method limit, so this 20K method SDK is quite too large for us. 

Then I tried Kotlin, which really satisfied me. However, I was still worried about the method count. I still remember, in one version, the method count of Kotlin SDK is 7 thousand. And then a new versions come out, the method count increased dramatically to 10 thousand, which really concerned me. I was not sure if I should continue Kotlin if the mehtod count of Kotlin SDK continues increasing every time it gets an new version. 

However, the next version after the version that increased 3 thousand method came out and I found that the method count just dropped from 10K to 7K again!

This incident gave me great confidence in Kotlin. Because it made me believe that the authors of Kotlin knows the pain point of Android development, and they were trying their best to improve Kotlin, to make it a better language for Android development.

P.S. Of course, you don't have to worry about the method count in 2018. You already have mutli dex to help you hold more methods, and have proguard to help you remove unnecessary methods. However, I just want to point out that multi-dex solution is not a great solution, and it may slow down your app, especially when your app is launched for the first time. So, making your app as smallest as you can is still one good recomendation of Android development. It's easier to read, to run, and to debug. 

## 2. Kotlinx Serialization
Gson is not a library made just for Kotlin. So if you are using Kotlin's default arguemnt, delegation and other features, you may find Gson works poorly in your project.

So Jetbrains released one serialization library just for Kotlin projects. Here is the link, you can [check it out](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.serialization) if you are interested.

## 3. Replace APT or annotationProcessor
More and more libraries are using the annotation to get more work done in the background. So if you want to use these libraries, you just need to 

1. add `apply plugin: 'kotlin-kapt''

2. and every time you need to add one dependencies like 
`annotationProcessor 'org.greenrobot:eventbus-annotation-processor:3.1.1'`
, just replace it with 
`kapt 'org.greenrobot:eventbus-annotation-processor:3.1.1'`

3. If you are still using apt, then remove this:
`classpath 'com.neenbedankt.gradle.plugins:android-apt:1.8'`
