## What's the issue

I've been logging in Firebase once in a while to see the crash log or any other issues. I just find out we have an ANR in the splash page. Lucky for us, Firebase also provided the ANR trace file for us. So it would much easier to reproduce or figure out what went wrong.

By searching our app's package name, I quickly got why users were stopped at the splash page and can't get into our app.  It appears that the SpalshActivity's `Completable.blockingAwait()` is the main cause. 

## Dig into the code

```java
       Completable.fromAction(this::fetchABTestConfig)
                .blockingAwait()
```

So the problem is back to who is calling this `blockingAwait()` method. I went digging into the code and find out it's the A/B testing configuration issue. The detail is that we need to fetch the A/B test configuration from the server in the splash page. If we don't get the configuration due to any unpleasant reason (like no network access), PO just decided that user should not get into our app as we don't know it's a type A user or type B user. 

However, due to some unexpected reason(such as no network access), user might not get the A/B test config in the splash page, which means he/she is stucked in the splash page. And even worse, since the main thread is blocked, so our user can't even exit the splash page, as the back key is not responding due to the ANR. 

## Try to solve 

If our main thread is blocked, could I arrange this fetching config work to the I/O thread, and make the issue disappear? Okay, let's try. I changed the code by adding a Schedulers.io (the second line):


```java
       Completable.fromAction(this::fetchABTestConfig)
                .subscribeOn(Schedulers.io())
                .blockingAwait()
```

Unfourtunately, it turns out this approach does not work. Now we need to go dig into the RxJava's source code.

## RxJava's source code
I turn to the RxJava's source code. The source code of `blockingAwait` is :

```java
public final class BlockingMultiObserver<T> extends CountDownLatch {
  public BlockingMultiObserver() {
      super(1);
  }

  @SchedulerSupport(SchedulerSupport.NONE)
  public final void blockingAwait() {
      BlockingMultiObserver<Void> observer = new BlockingMultiObserver<Void>();
      subscribe(observer);
      observer.blockingGet();
  }

  @Override
  public void onComplete() {
      countDown();
  }  
}
```

Oh, I now get it, it has a CountDownLatch in itself, and the latch count is 1. Only when the job is done, the `countDown()` will get called. 
From what we saw, the CountDownLatch was laied on the UI thread, that's why it is called `blocked`. 

## The real solution
The requirement is clear: we need to get the config first, then the user is allowed to get into our app. But we should not let the user stuck in the splash page even when something wrong happened. -- AKA, we should not block the main thread. 

Apparently, blockingAwait method is not what we need. I have two other options, which are both good for this issue.

### Solution 1
**1). approach one**  
1. Try to get the configuration in the I/O thread. 
2. Use `handler.post` to send message when the configuration is get. 
3. Also, we have a `handler.postDelay(runnable, 4000)` to set a timeout (4 seconds) to make sure we are not waiting forever.

### Solution 2
**2). RxJava's Subject and timeout**  
1. It's just like the solution 1, it's just we are using Subject instead of Handler. 
2. A `PublishSubject` is good enough for us in this scenario. 
3. Also, a timeout operator to help us set the timeout as well.